A Guide to what the next National Government will do for New Zealand

THE ECONOMY

In 1972 New Zealand had, for the first time, more overseas reserves than total overseas debt. Labour has dissipated these reserves, borrowed about $200 million overseas and incurred annual interest charges mortgaging almost our total export earnings from butter and cheese.

Inflation in 1972 was about 5 per cent, the second lowest of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) nations. Today it is about 15 per cent, well above the OECD average, and New Zealand has an external deficit per head of population second only to Iceland.

The first three years of the coming National Government will be very largely devoted to restoring New Zealand's shattered economy. Continuous attention to economic trends and problems will replace stop-go and panic measures. And the taxation system will be used to give incentives for desirable economic activity.

We will take steps to stimulate savings. Savings accounts, limited as to amount, will be established. The deposits of individuals will earn an interest rate at least equal to the annual rate of inflation thus preserving the purchasing power of savings.

We believe that continued double-figure inflation will destroy the basis of the New Zealand economy and cause untold misery. The fight against increases in the cost of living is the most important single issue in economic management.

People without jobs represent waste of productive effort: National supports a policy of full employment and the dignity of labour. We do not accept unemployment as a balancing factor in economic management.

Finally, the National Development Council will be restored and consultation resumed between Government departments, academic specialists and private industry, including farming and organised labour. The vital role of every section of productive industry will be recognised.

It is these moves which will put New Zealand on the way to economic recovery. And reduce the spiraling rate of inflation.


SUPERANNUATION

Seldom has any policy released by an opposition party had the impact that the National Superannuation scheme has had. It is designed to give every New Zealander dignity and a decent income in retirement.

Here's how it will operate:

  Anyone who is 60 years old, or more, and who has lived in New Zealand for at least ten years will receive National Superannuation, starting next year. And with three big annual jumps in the rate of benefit it will be fully operating by 1978.

To guarantee our elderly retired folk a decent minimum income, the full rate of National Superannuation, for a married couple, will be 80% of the average weekly ordinary time wage. It will be recalculated every six months. In 1976, to start the scheme, the rate will be 65% of the average wage; in 1977 it will be raised to 70% and in 1978 to the full 80%. The rate for single persons, at all times, will be 60% of the married rate.

The present average weekly wage is $99 and so, if there is no increase at all in wage rates in the next three years, the rates of National Superannuation will be shown in the box* below (*box not shown).

Next year, under National, the age and universal superannuation benefits will merge to form National Superannuation. At present both these benefits pay $51.26 to a married couple and $30.75 to a single person, so even in the first year of National Superannuation, a married couple over 60 who have no other income will have $6.18 a week more to spend than they do now and a single beneficiary will receive, after tax, $3.15 a week more than he now gets by way of age benefits, or universal superannuation.

Of course those with other income will receive the benefit too, but they will pay more tax on their bigger incomes. By 1978 a married couple will receive a net $18.06 a week more than the present age benefit or universal annuation and a single person will be receiving a net $10.17 a week more. For the single person, that is a pay rise of more than 33%.

The big and comforting thing about National Superannuation is that everyone gets it, just so long as they have lived in New Zealand for ten years or more and are aged 60 or over. They will not, nor will anyone, be expected to make special contributions over a period of years, in order to qualify.

The scheme is financed out of ordinary taxation so there is nothing to be deducted from wages; no special payments of any kind. This means that the present age beneficiary will receive National Superannuation next year. So will the retired Government servant, in addition to the pension from the Government superannuation fund which he had paid for. And so will all the people who are drawing pensions from company and other private superannuation schemes.

In recent weeks, the Government has been making moves to compensate for the weaknesses revealed in their own scheme, when compared with National's. But the fact remains that National's is the only superannuation scheme that offers a fair deal to everyone in their years of retirement.


WOMEN'S RIGHTS

Since 1975 is International Women's Year, it can be expected that all political parties will talk a great deal about their 'women's policies'. Unfortunately most will be little more than window dressing.

National's plans go far beyond this. We will begin by introducing legislation to remove existing legal discrimination relating to women, and to prohibit discrimination against any person by reason of sex.

We will also establish a Human Rights Commission which will ensure that equal rights legislation is enforced and that women have an effective and inexpensive means of redress. The Commission will investigate cases of discrimination presented to it and recommend civil action to the Attorney-General.

Full consideration will be given to the recommendations of the Select Committee on Women's Rights. We will set priorities for implementation, in consultation with women's organisations.

We will legislate to ensure that all areas of discrimination in employment are removed and that merit is the sole criterion in respect of job applications, selection and promotion.

To encourage women who wish to enter, return to or remain in employment, National will encourage employers to establish flexible working patterns, such as glide time, part-time, job sharing, and multi-shift work. Thus assisting women who undertake the dual role of worker and mother.

We will give special attention to the problems associated with re-entry to the work force and ensure that greater job retraining opportunities are available.

Maternity leave without pay will be available to women for a period of up to 12 weeks, without loss of job security, promotion or superannuation rights, providing this does not cause undue disruption to a business enterprise.

The new National Government will appoint women to boards, commissions and tribunals and will give consideration to the appointment of women as industrial mediators.

We will also support increased participation of women in the judicial system and recognise no sex barriers in the exercise of any judicial office. Suitably qualified women will be given exactly the same consideration as men.

National will ensure that early childhood education is generally available, where feasible, as an integral part of the education system. Priority will be given to such areas as new housing suburbs and regenerated inner city areas.

Financial assistance will be provided through approved voluntary agencies to establish centres for those children who need day care but whose parents cannot afford to pay the full cost.

National will also promote and encourage job training and retraining, "second chance" education and promote a policy of life-long education for women.

We will tackle the problems women face with housing. Under National the Housing Corporation will not differentiate between men and women borrowers on grounds of sex.

We will introduce a flexible principal repayment plan to meet those cases where the wife works, leaves the work force to raise a family and then returns to work.

The National Party believes all women must have the opportunity to participate on the basis of full equality in the social, cultural, economic and political spheres of New Zealand society.
